---
description: >-
  The reason why it is an important step to set up such an entity for US
  projects is the following: Due to the regulatory uncertainty and risks in
  regards to securities.
---

# 2. Token Issuer Entity / Token SPV

For this reason it is advisable for US teams to conduct their fundraising rounds via SAFEs + Token Warrant. Due to the nature of the Token Warrant and it being a purchase agreement for tokens that _might_ be issued in the future, the warrant can be assigned to a different company, taking the US DevCo that signed the SAFE + Token Warrant out of the responsibilities in regards to the token purchase and token distribution. This is where the Token Issuer / Token SPV comes in.

***

## **When is the Token SPV Set up**

The Token SPV needs to be set up and ready for mainnet launch as it will receive the tokens that will then be distributed through “off-chain” agreements such as Warrants or Token Options to investors, advisors, team members and early contributors.Ideally the preparation of the set up is done several weeks prior to launch. Teams will usually have to work with service providers in the jurisdiction where the Token SPV is set up and it requires several documents for the Token SPV to be able to conduct a compliant token sale to the investors. We recommend taking at least 2 months into account for the entire process.

### **Purpose & Responsibilities**

Let's get to the “why” and “what” the Token SPV _does_. First of all, as the name suggests “Special Purpose Vehicle” the Token SPV is only set up for a purpose and will not be needed after. This being said, a Token SPV can usually be resolved within 6 months as it has fulfilled its purpose. As mentioned above, the main purpose of the Token SPV is to **sell and distribute** the tokens which the investors are eligible to buy for a certain price or discount (preferably discount) as agreed upon on the SAFE + Token Warrant agreement that the DevCo signed with the investors.Let’s go through it step by step:

#### **Step 1 - Setup and required Documents:**

* Define Jurisdiction, typically BVI or Cayman Islands
* Define nominee services in the jurisdiction
* Obtain a Token Legal Opinion
* Prepare Token Incentive Plan (Token Options) for team members and early contributors

#### **Step 2 - Before Launch:**

* Token Warrants that the DevCo signed with investors are assigned to the Token SPV prior to the network’s launch for future conversion
* Token Options with team members and contributors are assigned to the Token SPV prior to the network’s launch for future conversion
* Receive payments from VCs, typically in the form of stable coins

**Step 3 - Network Launch:**

* Receives “team & investors token pool” at the moment of token launch
* Converts Token Warrants / Options for token distribution to the team and investors
* Distributes tokens to the team and investors

## **Jurisdictions**

There are two main approaches to establishing the Token SPV:

1. **Offshore Registration:** Typically, the Token Issuer is registered in an offshore, tax, and crypto-friendly jurisdiction with special regulations regarding token issuance. Favorable jurisdictions have the following attributes:
   * VASP regime: A specific regulatory regime in a country designed for virtual asset-related activities, such as exchanging one virtual asset for another, processing virtual asset transactions, storing virtual assets, and providing DeFi or NFT marketplaces with virtual assets
   * Token Regulation Guides: Jurisdictions that provide guides explaining the list of requirements that a company planning to issue tokens must follow in terms of community and token sales
   * Investor Recognition: Countries where the company registration is well-known among investors and they are comfortable with local laws

Some popular crypto-friendly jurisdictions that meet the above criteria include the Cayman Islands, British Virgin Islands (BVI), and Panama. Note that the offshore entity doesn't own a bank account; it only has a multisig wallet for funds.

1. **Onshore Registration:** Alternatively, projects that prefer the onshore route can establish the Token Issuer Entity in countries like Switzerland or Liechtenstein.
