---
title: 4. Channels
id: adr-004
displayed_sidebar: resourcesSidebar
---

# ADR-004: Realtime Data Channels

## Abstract

The fundamental communication component across all Sonr nodes is the `channel`.
By utilizing data and transport agnostic realtime streams between nodes, we effectively have realtime structured data transmission at any point in the world.

## Primer

The Sonr channel implementation requires prior knowledge of the following definitions before implementation.

### `multiaddr`

Multiaddr's are self describing addresses that operate on any network protocol.
They provide human-readable and efficient machine-readable representations.
[The multiaddr spec](https://github.com/multiformats/multiaddr) by protocol labs provides further details about the mechanism.


### `pub-sub`

The Sonr implementation follows the standard publish/subscribe model present with the modern web, with the caveat that it operates on a peer-to-peer node.
In particular, Sonr utilizes the [gossip-sub implementation specification](https://docs.libp2p.io/concepts/publish-subscribe/) to manage sending messages between peers on the network.

### `Service endpoint`
A `Service endpoint` describes a `url` which is associated to the did.
### `Topic`
A `Topic` is a series of contexts which are denoted by '/' these contexts are heigharical and facilitate routing of data.

### `Temporary Channel`
A temporary channel is a channel that exists between two `Peers` on the Sonr network.
This channel exists for as long as the application which defines it keeps the channel active.
Once the channel is `deactivated` it is destroyed.
Messages passed between the two `Peers` are not persistent in this mode.
Temporary Channels communicate on specified topics and utilize the `Exchange` model within Sonr.



### `Persistent Channel`
A persistent channel is a channel which mirrors the implementation of a `Temporary Channel` but has more functionality.
- A `Schema` is defined for the data sent between two `Peers`
- On creation, a new `Bucket` is created for the channel
- Data `published` on the channel is also stored in the `Channel`'s bucket

## Objective

- An Open transport agnostic communication mechanism
- Accessibility for users to listen to channels based on application
- A mechanism for developers to create channels for their individual development needs
- Structured Object reperesentation as the payload body between messages, as specified in [ADR-002](./2.md)

## Addressing & Identifiying Topics

In Sonr, the name of a channel follows the `multiaddr` specification for individual protocols that operate for a specific application. When resolving a `DIDDocument` of a particular application, developers are also provided a list of channels present for the application under its `Service endpoint` property.

### Topics

Topics in the Sonr channel mechanism are defined as Developer created persistent stream endpoints where users can join and are always ensured to return pre-defined structured data, as per [ADR-002](./2.md).

**Topic Name Representation**

`/sonr/channels/[applicationName]/[version]/[topicName]`

**Example Topic Identifier**

`/sonr/channels/beam/v1/SonrGroupChat`

### Protocols

Protocols in the Sonr channel mechanism are defined as having pre-packaged spec-compliant functionality, accessible to both users to interact and developers to leverage. For example one of the provided core protocols by the Sonr Team is our [Libp2p Matrix Integration](https://archive.fosdem.org/2020/schedule/event/dip_p2p_matrix/).

## Client Side Interaction (Ephemeral Channels)
## Description
The `Client side`, or `Motor` implementation of `Channels` utilizes the `Sonr` exchange protocol. Exchange protocol is in charge of routing messages between `Peers`. The methods defined in the below section wrap the `Exchange protcol` in order to implement described functionality.

## Relationship between Channel instance and Topics
Each channel Object created is for a single `topic` each topic is then associated with that channel for both `publishing` and `listening` on `topics`.

## Methods
The following methods are provided by Sonr's client-side Motor package, to be leveraged by frontends powered by the Sonr ecosystem.

### `Listen()`

`topicName`
: string


When a channel has succesfully been routed and verified, the client is returned a `Channel` definition this facilitates communication on the specified topic when other `Peers` that are also `Listening` on the given `Topic`


### `Publish()`

`topicName`
: string

`body`
: buffer


Calling a post method to the endpoint results in the client posting a message to the underlying `PubSub` topic. The message will successfully publish to the channel if the provided body message correctly maps to the `DID` and object reference involved with the channel.

## Channels on chain (Persistent Channel Definitions)
### Description
`Persistent` channels have the same behavior of `Ephemeral` changes. When said channel is created the following record is stored on chain.

### Models
#### who is model
``` go=
HowIs {
	// Did is the DID of the channel
	Did: string
	// Document is the DID Document of the registered name and account encoded as JSON
	Creator: string
	// ChannelDoc is the structure of the channel encoded as JSON
	Channel: ChannelDoc
	// Timestamp is the time of the last update of the DID Document
	Timestamp int64
	// Is Active is the status of the DID Document
	IsActive bool
}
```

``` go
// options is a collection of options for the beam.
options {
    ttl: time.Duration
    capacity: int
}
```

#### Channel X modle interface definition Definition
```go=
// Channel is a pubsub based Key-Value store for Libp2p nodes.
Channel {
	// Did returns the DID of the channel.
	Did() string

	// Read returns a list of all peers subscribed to the channel topic.
	Read() []peer.ID

	// Publish publishes the given message to the channel topic.
	Publish(obj *ot.ObjectDoc) error

	// Listen subscribes to the beam topic and returns a channel that will
	// receive events.
	Listen(opChan chan *ChannelMessage)

	// Close closes the channel.
	Close() error
}
```

### Document Schema and applications
A `Schema` is defined when the `Persistent` channel is created. Creation of said channel will create a `Transaction` on chain. **only** persistent channels use this mechanism.

### `CreateChannel`
#### Parameters

`Creator`
: string

`Label`
: string

`Description`
: string

`RegisteredObject`
: ObjectDoc


Creates a new Channel definition for an application. The method requires the DID of the application or user, a label for human-readable representation, description for the functionality of the channel, and a registered object for defining what structured data is returned by the channel.

> When the `channel` is created, the created object is set to `Listening` as side effect.

**Response**

```json=
{
    type : "tx/MsgCreateChannel",
    body: {
        "code": 200,
        "did": "did:snr:abc123",
        "channel": {
            "label": "test",
            "description": "A example channel",
            "registeredObject": [...] // See ADR-002
        }
    }
}
```

### `UpdateChannel`
#### Parameters
`Creator`
: string

`Label`
: string (optional)

`Description`
: string (optional)

`RegisteredObject`
: sonrio.sonr.object.ObjectDoc (optional)


Updates a Channel's information, all data is optional for update. However, the entire `object document` must be updated as that is considered a single property in this model.

**Response**

```json=
{
    type : "tx/MsgUpdateChannel",
    body: {
        "code": 200,
        "did": "did:snr:abc123",
        "channel": {
            "label": "test",
            "description": "A example channel",
            "registeredObject": [...] // See ADR-002
        }
    }
}
```

### `DeactivateChannel`

`creator`:
: DID of the creator of the channel.

`label`
: A human readable label to assign to the channel.


Utilized by developers to effectively eliminate any existing structured channel representation for a given application. A record will be created on change flagging the `isActive` property to false. Denoting the channel is no longer active.


**Response**

```json=
{
    type : "tx/MsgDeleteChannel",
    body: {
        "code": 200,
        "did": "did:snr:abc123",
    }
}
```

## Sequence Diagrams


---

### References

- [Libp2p Pubsub](https://docs.libp2p.io/concepts/publish-subscribe/)
- [MultiAddr Specification](https://github.com/multiformats/multiaddr)
- [Sonr ADR-003](./3.md)
